Okay,
we're live. Hello.
I said I'd be back.
Dinner took longer than expected.
But I am in fact here.
Cool.
So I realized something with this uh
this kernel that is going to be a
problem.
Uh
yeah, the thing that's going to be a
problem with this is isn't this going to
output like specific shape kernel?
Let's go look.
We just do
obsit.
Hello off market. Welcome.
Okay.
Want this and we want debug.
What the hell?
Oh, I did the wrong one. Hang on.
All right. So,
we just do
Tiny model obsize.
Exit.
So this is element wise and a reduction
I believe.
Thank you. oxidative.
It's a nice space.
Uh
yeah. So, let's go look at this kernel.
Now, this is the thing I'm not sure
about, right? Because this is going to
give us
You see?
Got to realize
uh this is not what we want. View
program.
I think this is it.
Hey Spencer,
I am busy breaking my head. How's it
going?
Working on project AI driven in space
situational
collision risk detection. Cool.
Yo, what the heck is this? Oh, did it
just unroll?
yeah, this kind of just unrolled
everything.
So I guess we look at does Tiny Brad
have the ability to generate us kernels
that are not
shape dependent um or like are not hard
coding the shape
So do I have to do this without beam or
what do I do?
What happens if I do
it this way? Do I
What happens if I do it this way? Do I get something different?
reduction, but these are still um
Yeah. So, here you actually This is not
full unrolled anymore, right?
Or is it was I looking at this one?
And this gives us
Yeah.
Okay. So, um
I mean you see the issue here, right? It
is generating good kernels,
but it's generating like specialized to
a specific shape.
Because we'd basically
we would have to include tiny grad in
It would have to go into puffer, I
think, and then it would have to like
the install or whatever would have to
actually benchmark or would have to run
tiny to generate your kernels.
like instead of using unroll or
something, it just manually unrolled it.
So, it wrote like this very non-readable
kernel and also like
there's no way I can adjust this and
just use it.
index reduce add mole add square. Yeah.
So this is this is your like little
computation graph for an RMS norm. So
this thing is cool, right?
that I don't see how I can use
which is an issue. So
doc describing speed
compile speed.
Fast graph rewrite. Yeah. Okay.
Tiny jet.
Best execution speed of any framework as
it usually bypasses the GPU driver.
Rebuilds the command Q.
So then why where is the overhead then?
Why is this not just faster?
You still want to use China grid? I'm
looking, man. That's what I'm assessing
right now.
determines how operations are grouped
into kernels and which tensors are
written to memory.
Internal speed determines how fast the
operation is done. Yeah. Beam changes
opts that control the parameters of
speed operation
applied to kernel.
Hello, welcome.
So, I mean this is the first legitimate
question.
Uh where is this?
I had a dock somewhere, didn't I?
Where did I write this? Ah, here we go.
And like yes, I'm obviously aware that
it's going to be faster if you tune
everything everything, but like
basically I'm thinking if you tune the
block size for smaller nets for instance
and then you still ship it like
Main bottleneck in most colonels is
accessing memory.
terabyte of RAM bandwidth.
Oops.
You use each loaded value 100 times.
They're using it in production. So
should have a reason why they migrated.
They are. Who is they?
Like there are a lot of good things
here, but then there's some things
missing basically is what I'm seeing so
far.
Well, because it's own thing and it got
good enough that they could have like
Yeah.
blinding white page, but
see um
4x4 matrix element wise. says addition
might render this CUDA code
So I guess then yeah the question is can
we get this to generate generic kernels
because otherwise right like we would
have to ship t we'd either have to ship
every possible op size which isn't
realistic
Or
yeah, that's pretty much it. Or we'd
have to bundle tiny with it, which is
not what I want.
Yeah, PyTorch is easy. Like TensorFlow
is [ __ ] library. Yes.
Um,
is quite nice. Okay. Yeah, we do this
type of stuff. It's fine.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's fine.
So,
I guess I didn't expect it to output a
shape specific kernel, right? Like a
hard-coded kernel for the shape.
like you can really only use that for um
inference if you have like one specific
architecture.
Let's check another thing
here. Let's go check um because we had
the other now that we have a little bit
more knowledge here
we can do test grad
Okay. So for test tiny
we get
Now we get
faster than torch
eager at least and
faster than torch eager at least and torch compile is a pain in the ass.
And it'll take a while
and it'll just completely mess up
is like good job torch.
If I do max auto tune,
Yeah, surprisingly still worse, right?
Can try getting rid of full graph.
Yeah, but it's slower.
So,
compile kind of sucks.
And actually, Tiny is faster on this
benchmark
by a little bit.
uh, this is pretty consistent with what
I've seen for a long time.
Oh, but hang on. You know what I think
we're doing wrong here?
Ah, we're doing one thing wrong.
This will this will potentially change
it quite a bit.
Yeah. So, interestingly enough,
this does not help at all.
has no
attribute requires grad.
Come here.
Come on.
In out bias.
What did I do wrong here? Oh, because
this is the wrong
thing.
So now, of course, this has to retune
the beams.
Yeah, it's probably a list. Yeah,
there's the uh the delay on X.
All right, 19 mil.
So, that takes a little bite out of PF
is very funny,
but still just a little bit faster than
torch on this. Uh let's make this as
minimal as possible because I think my
goal is going to be to have like a few
clean examples we can use uh for demos.
So we have
this
warm up
flops
relu
this
I don't need flatten of one either
redundant.
It's funny that torched actually doesn't
get any faster from um
from this at all. So, I do wonder what
precision tiny is going to use.
New to Python, two hours a day. What are
you doing here?
Oh, you have stumbled into the deep end
here. Um,
I am a reinforcement learning researcher
and I stream all of my dev. What I'm
doing at the moment is I'm looking at uh
tiny grads performance
for small networks versus torches and
then if it beats torches versus my own
custom
uh GPU operations that I have and we're
going to see if this thing is any faster
and if there are any ideas that I can
use generally in the rest of what I work
on.
Yes, welcome to the matrix.
That's a good way of putting it.
There are tons of educational resources
around here though. I do make uh some
content for more beginners.
import global counters. So global
counters will do the same op as I have
um it'll do this for me, right? This
flop count. What do like where do I get
if I wanted to do BF-16 or TF-32? Like
where do I do this?
Why is there no T float?
Why is there no TF32 here?
Oh, also did that not even index
correctly?
Reading the code in examples is easier
than the docs.
I mean that's kind of acceptable.
Examples are good but in this case like
there is some level of API rep. I would
expect stuff like this is good. I'd like
to have this for like everything.
Then the example should at least be
linked. Let me add that to my notes.
Nope. I used the wrong search bar. Hang
on.
MVARS MD.
Why is MVARS MD better than the Envar's?
Am I stupid?
Hang on. Let me just make sure this
isn't me being stupid.
Cuz if it is on the docks like so
bright, fair play.
Um, environment variables.
Okay, I'm dumb. This is literally
directly served from the same page.
Cool. This one is me being stupid 100%.
But like I wouldn't expect to look for
it in Envir. First
Things are not where you would expect
them to be.
Same speed, right?
Apparently it is.
Get rid of this
means the bias is true
which would be default
All right. So, Tiny Grad wins a little
bit on speed here.
Now, mind you, the one thing that's a
little annoying is so Torch is supposed
to have all this compile stuff. Um, it's
not actually faster a lot of the time,
especially for these small models, but
just look at this. If you don't compile
Tiny,
I just want to show you this. So, if you
do not run Tiny with compile,
See you, Tom. No idea what's going on.
Fun to watch. Cool. Thanks for dropping
by. I have guides on my ex.
Okay, so now that we have a decent
number of people here for the evening,
does anybody have any requests or things
on this example
uh before I move on? Like have I done do
we all agree that I've done pretty much
as much as is as is reasonable for a
basic linear net to compare torch and
tiny grab
for this like this one example. We're
going to do a couple more examples of
course.
Looks like you're using their JIT. Yeah,
I'm using their JIT and I'm using their
beam search as well. Is this supposed to
be two or am I supposed to do more than
this?
Well, I figure we might have a couple
Tiny Grad people on by now. Who knows? I
said I'd be working on it.
We had some before.
I don't remember how big to make beam.
Is there still other searches? I do not
know.
I also don't know what this is doing
other than taking forever.
Number of beams in kernel beam search.
Apparently, there are docs over like
what it searches over. There are
settings where you can control
uh like specifically
what it does.
More options and increase compilation
time. Well, I just ran it with eight, so
let's see what that does. I have no idea
what these are set to. I figured this
would be a constant, right?
Number of beams in kernel search. Yeah.
Oh.
Uh, okay. Tiny grad. The hell.
That's pretty cool. Yeah, we have viz.
Um
Huh.
How is it? 27 mil. That's after the
kernel search.
No beam on quick start.
Pulls your first program. Slow AF.
2.3x torch. Yeah,
it does seem like their JIT actually
works. Torches compile does not [ __ ]
work. It does seem like their JIT does
actually work. So that's nice.
Has potential to further speed up
puffer. There's a lot of stuff I like,
but there's a lot of stuff that's
missing or not the way that I would want
it to be.
You can write them in your raw u ops
yourself.
That doesn't that's not what you would
do, dude. You would do you just write
your own kernels at that point. The UOPs
are not like easily human writable or
readable at all.
Like you want to see what their kernel
gen outputs
here.
Let me let me show you what their kernel
gen outputs.
Yeah.
All right. So, their kernel gen output
stuff like this
and then you'll go like look at it
and it's this.
So,
they kind of just manually unroll a
bunch of stuff. And um if you look here,
where is it?
Yeah. So they do
they do like they hardcode the shapes
into everything as well.
Probably busy. Yeah, he's at Nurips. He
like said he sent out this party thing.
I'm not going to nurse though.
think you'll still get fusion.
But like why would I write it out? Like
at that point, dude, I'm going to write
out a CUDA kernel like here. So the the
point of this, right, is that this
generates us decent kernels. Like I can
also just write kernels
here. So this is like I spent two days
on this kernel, right? Not the RMS norm.
That shit's broken. That's actually one
of the things that motivated me to look
at this. Um but okay, like here's a
mining inference kernel. This is actual
human readable code and each of these
are just like tiny little elementwise
functions, right? And then like I've got
log coiths and values. Here's one.
Here's the backward pass. Really the
obnoxious thing about kernels is getting
the backward passes to be correct. And
then like here's a more complex one.
This is the fuse scan operation. This
little piece of code took me a couple
days and here's the backward pass for
it. It's like pretty small function.
Very very fiddly to get this correct.
But like the point is this is actually
readable and usable output. I can edit
this and try to like optimize this. This
I can't do [ __ ] with. And like on top of
that, if at least this were if this
could generate me kernels that would
like be size independent, like maybe
this takes block size as a parameter or
something and it just finds me the
optimal default block sizes, I could do
that. Um, if this had like unroll in
here, you know, instead of hard coding
it,
but this is like very clearly not meant
to be human editable or reusable or
whatever.
throw it through beam, right? So, beam
is going to search over these kernels,
right? But like the point is
it shouldn't have to manually unroll
loops like this to get this level of PF,
right? Like it should be able like this
could be this could take a shape arg
with an unroll in it and then it would
work like maybe it would be optimal for
this shape but the kernel would still
work for different shapes and would
still be pretty good for like you know
if you double the size it would probably
still be pretty good right
so like the thing I wanted to do with
tiny was to use them to generate kernels
right and then you know as I generate
more kernels then maybe it makes sense
to have a tiny grad back end and like
you know a lower level back end.
But this makes it very difficult.
That said, we're going to keep looking
at the beam performance cuz we did just
get a very good result out of it.
All right. Like actually this one is a
good one. Right.
So this is
I actually I don't want to test this
with um
I don't want to test this with
the
I don't want to test this with the optimizer in the mix.
I like to test it like this. Right.
Okay. So,
yeah. 115 million samples per second out
of torch.
with
no grad.
Oh no, we do need grad on this though.
But optimizer zeros the freaking
gradient.
like stupid
and torch.
It's supposed to reuse these buffers,
isn't it?
Stupid. See, this is like I hate torch
compile so much.
It's such a buggy piece of [ __ ]
Okay, there it goes. Look at that. You
compile it with default and it gets way
slower. Buggy piece of [ __ ]
[ __ ] torch compile.
train
in backward.
Oh,
wait. Did I do this wrong? I think I
did.
Yeah, torch compile just sucks.
It's It's not your imagination. It's
just bad.
All right, let's see this. So, the thing
is, so far I'm not perfectly happy with
Tiny Grad's error messages.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> error messages
a bit better,
but still me.
Like, what the [ __ ] does that mean? No
tensor core available.
There are tensor cores available.
That wasn't even running this piece of
code. That was the piece of code that I
know is correct.
Okay, so there's 106.
Okay, so that's a false alarm. Sadly,
those are actually pretty much the exact
same speed.
Now the one potential thing that we get
out of this
uh the one potential thing we get out of
this
This might be way too big, right?
Oh, I think it's exponential.
that's super inconsistent, man. Like
sometimes it finds the good kernels,
sometimes it doesn't.
No, I do not like that.
search for best performance and save it.
Yeah, but like you should not be
searching like Torch's RMS norm kernel
sucks. Um,
so it shouldn't you should not be doing
that much searching to come up with
something about the same speed as torch
and then sometimes fail and be worse.
Well, I really just want to try this
operation right here.
I think that this is a good opt to test,
right?
We're watching Ilia. I don't think Well,
I could do that tonight. I kind of want
to finish this. What time is it? 7:30.
How long's the podcast?
Hour 30. Nah, we're going to have to do
that Monday. That's too long.
We're doing tiny grad benchmarking
tonight, Kevin.
Mostly a nothing burger. I'll be the
judge of that. Like I said, Ilia is the
one person he could get that I'd
actually watch it for.
not Carpathy
cuz Carpathy I go read his code and
stuff, man.
I follow Carpathy for his technical
stuff, not his high level takes.
Lot of commercials in that 1.5 hours.
It's called YouTube Premium.
Let's see. Is it batch key hidden size?
I believe it's like this.
Yeah, it's Horizon hidden size. Like
the podcaster commercials.
Oh,
Well, I'm not going to skip those on the
stream either. It's very very bad form
to like rewatch something live and not
even show their sponsored stuff.
blog posts and then I also read a little
bit of um I forget which one of it was
of his like lower level implementations.
I mean, he like he's very good at
something that I value very much, which
is like taking the current stupidly over
complicated thing that people are
talking about and making it very simple
without losing precision at Oh.
I mean, Ilia is like from when I was at
OpenAI, Ilia and Greg are two of the
people I respect the most
in tech.
Well, an AI in general, I suppose.
Admittedly,
I didn't get like I didn't really get to
see a bunch of Brockman's code, though,
I did see the type of work he would do
with the Dota team.
I mean, Brockman would literally just be
there coding with the Dota team all day.
Um,
I kind of got to see, you know, because
they were all also at lunch every day,
but I kind of got to see the way that
they led um, Open AI at what was the
really the golden age of RL when there I
think that well,
it's my firm belief that that was where
the best RL was happening thus far, like
ever. Um,
Dota is by far the best RL project, best
RL result. Uh, the Rubik's Cube was
pretty damn good as well. We were only
two years out from um the original
algorithmic breakthroughs, PO,
and
there were a few other cool projects at
the time.
There was a ton of cool stuff going on
then.
I mean, Dota alone was just so freaking
cool to say.
Oh, yeah. This doesn't have a dot
backward, does it?
Uh,
do I just have to mark this as requires
grad?
I think we're back.
Damn it. X.
Yeah, X stayed down. Let me try to fix
X.
Gotta love how it does that, man. Just
take all of my memory torch. Good job.
So, um, the reason that I take Open AI's
Dota result over everything else, it's a
5v5 game, not a 1v one game. So, it's
actually multi- aent. Um, Alpha Stars 1
v one.
Uh Dota is way more heavily strategic
than mechanical.
I'd say Starcraft is way more
mechanical. Uh way more mechanics
focused. Dota is like the League for old
like for old men in some sense. Um
the methods used for Dota were far far
simpler.
It really just showed like PO plus
selfplay plus a little bit of scale, but
nowhere near as much scale as you would
expect is enough to solve the game. And
it was also trained entirely with
selfplay where Alpha Star trained I
believe up to Diamond they did imitation
learning. So with all those things like
Dota is a way way better project in my
mind. It's not even close.
Go is very far up there as well, of
course, but like Go is harder to
intuitit because the type of difficulty
and the type of problem solving in there
is far less intuitive and far harder to
map onto real tasks than Dota is,
even just knowing a little bit about a
MOA,
about MOBAs in general.
So that's why
hopefully this won't take it down. I
used way lower batch sizes.
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah, it's really not even close
in my mind.
Dota is by far the best.
Okay, we forgot times horizon.
Strateggo.
Oh no, man. Not even close. This
freaking game.
Is nowhere even as there's like there's
no way that's as interesting at all.
It's cool that they kept doing this
stuff, but
this is a really really stupid way to
quantify complexity as well.
Like Strateggo, there's no way this is I
guess I never was good at it.
is nowhere near as complicated as go,
right? Or chess.
No. No way.
Unless somebody's going to tell me that
Strateggo is actually a super freaking
complicated game.
Huge search space is not a good reason
for a problem being hard. Okay, the
search space of Dota is way bigger. It's
[ __ ] continuous.
It's way complicated. I used to play it
a lot.
It's a lot more like chess in the moves
in like the search space in general.
Oh, you're not even looking at as much
stuff at a time as you are look when
you're playing chess.
Actually,
you know, a really easy way to test it,
you know what's going to be kind of cool
about this? You know how we get to
quantify game complexity when puffer
gets a little bit better? We just run
puffer lib on the game and the games
that take more flops are harder. That's
it.
Yeah, it is about bluffing and stuff. I
see. Yeah, that's fair.
I have way more respect at the very
least for stuff like chess and go though
than I do for poker.
We're not going to make the same mistake
again.
We're going to do
512 by 64. This will be better.
him some.
Let's
access.
Why you rename this to axis, man?
So, we're going to test this one is
going to be cool because I have a custom
kernel to test like test this against.
Okay, that's cool, right?
Yeah, tiny search is the best kernel.
And we should honestly, we're going to
test it with a a few different things.
I want this to be like a good evaluation
of the uh the thing.
And then let's do um
Bump this to eight.
So, Jess, um,
chess versus Dota. No way. I take Dota.
Chess versus a lot of other things.
Agree. Search makes it a lot less
impressive to me. And all the games have
been solved with search. Yeah, this is
really annoying that it just found
the fact that it just found a worse
kernel with beam 8.
Okay. Okay, so it finds it can like find
all sorts of different freaking kernels.
It's super inconsistent what speed of
kernel it finds.
Chess is a very good one because chess
is a game that you can actually you can
actually appreciate a bit very quickly.
But also the ways that um the way that
chess bots work make it feel like very
unfair to you cuz like of course it can
just go check all the moves instantly,
right?
Like given a um given a good chess
engine with fast state sets, you can
probably write a ridiculously naive
chess bot that already does better than
most players.
Like literally just do two-step look
ahead. You probably already are doing
pretty well.
Well, that doesn't make any bloody
sense.
I know my scan is way faster than
Portish.
Oh, I'm using Am I using the wrong one?
I used the wrong one.
That's quite good.
I thought mine was way faster than 2x
though.
Pretty sure mine was like way faster
than 2x. Let's go double check.
So why is it benchmarking it like this
then?
this.
Try this maybe.
SPS boosts. Not yet, man. It's not
stable at all.
I'm trying. Okay.
Yeah. I don't understand why. Um
Oh, wait. 90 is actually reasonable,
isn't it? Yeah, 90 is reasonable.
But then why is the pietorch one so
fast?
Which one is supposed to be stupid
Hello.
am I doing it in double or some
[ __ ]
It's the same thing.
So wait, why is it good in one test and
bad in the other test?
no.
Same thing.
245 mil.
That matches, right?
huh?
And then 90.
So I guess then the question is not why
is it fast here but why is it fast
I doubt this helps. Like this makes a
difference. Well, no. This will actually
make a difference. What's this do?
I'll stop backward.
I mean, why would this?
I don't understand how
cuz this is 230 mil.
And then I run this
192.
Yeah.
Oh, you are not synchronizing here,
dude.
Well, now I'm definitely synchronizing.
Right
I don't understand how it's so slow on
this profile and then it's like, "Oh
yeah, I'm just as fast as your custom
kernel on the other profile."
This one is like clearly my custom
kernel is way better.
Um, I don't know, man.
I do not know yet. I'll let you know
when I figure it out.
So, like what's happening here is I'm
getting some interesting profiling
results, but they're inconsistent.
So, I want to be really sure before I
draw any conclusions.
It's basically it's very difficult to
tell what's faster than anything else
because everything gives inconsistent
timings despite me I'm pretty sure not
making any of the common idiot errors.
just a neural net man.
I don't understand how the [ __ ] this
runs.
How does this [ __ ] run? But that
doesn't.
So dumb.
Outputs equals fuse scan
backwards.
You should 100% be able to do this,
right?
Dude, I hate this so much.
Like, I should be
Okay. I don't know why the hell that
works, but whatever, man.
Um,
same freaking speed,
right?
That torch is just a piece of [ __ ] is
all. Like
it's so annoying
sometimes.
Yes, I read the section about speed. It
doesn't tell you much of anything.
Oh, wait. How did that disc get in here?
This is fine.
okay. This is doing some magic [ __ ]
somehow.
lost backward. Sink
steps.
Oh, wait. You dummy.
See?
Profile tests are just made to [ __ ] with
you. I swear.
The thing where it's like always
inconsistent no matter how careful you
are.
always.
You have the literal same copy pasteed
code. One is fast, one is slow.
What the [ __ ]
Oh, wait. You idiot.
Yeah, you idiot.
Okay, don't be a [ __ ] idiot.
Take two.
Still slow,
huh?
I know what lazy evaluation is.
You should still be able to write a
profile check, copy paste the code, and
get the same result.
I mean, this is just like
very stupid, frankly.
Okay, good. It's not like an order
thing.
Use can loss.
Oh, it's loss.
Well, now we just mismatch even worse,
don't we?
That explains it.
Interesting though.
This still bothers the [ __ ] out of me,
right? Like,
okay. So, cuz like if I don't do this,
right? If I just do like this,
what do we get?
Okay. So, this matches here, right? Then
if I do the backwards,
suddenly it doesn't match at all.
Why not?
What the [ __ ]
So, how's that change anything?
that consistent.
That's so painful. What's wrong here,
man?
that's like so [ __ ] that that changes
the perf by that much.
Is it just like the warm-up? I'm so
confused. It's eager mode.
Oh, that's so obnoxious. It goes to the
CPU.
[ __ ] dude.
That's so stupid though.
That's like so stupid.
Why would you ever want that?
How do you code without AI?
At least I'm not going to like How do
you think without AI, dude?
Like if you're running out of ideas
without AI, then AI has taken something
very very important from you.
Okay.
The worst bug ever.
What? How? What is even the excuse for
that?
Like what the [ __ ] is the excuse for
that ever?
What? I don't even know what that does.
Like, what the [ __ ]
the ass.
Such a pain in the ass.
All right,
And I think Tiny Grat actually did well
on this one, right?
Well, we have to make sure it's not
cheating.
How do you sync cuda and tiny gradient?
Okay.
Uh, how do we sync
sync?
Lovely. Doesn't exist. Good job, Google.
[ __ ] you. Um
synchronize all pending operations. That
looks good.
Uh where is
You can time a step with this,
but we're not syncing the GPU.
So, how do you know that the freaking
stream is done?
cuz that's a good kernel speed, but I
don't know if it's
Can I do realize on it?
Let's get rid of this. This is garbage.
Doesn't exist.
LMS are stupid.
Uh,
well, this has realize on it now and
it's the same speed.
Why would it get slower with larger beam
argu?
now it's like way slower. Am I
misunderstanding what this ARG does?
Beam equals 4.
If this comes from an LLM and is stupid,
I swear to [ __ ] man.
Well, it's like
it's slower than beam equals three
and then you get with beam equals 2.
It's weird. Um, notably though, these
are all actually faster than the kernel
that I wrote, which I spent like three
days writing
though. It is fixing it. It is
essentially doing the max autotune. So,
it's not producing a general kernel.
And then when you go to compile the
entire thing, it's actually slow again,
I mean, this is like enough that it's
worth um doing more though, for sure.
Well, first of all, this is a freaking
sequence model. So, what are you doing?
Oh, this is my Hang on. This is just the
forward pass
nonsequential, right?
Yeah. So, you didn't do the full speed
of this.
Let me actually go check the tiny
Discord.
Maybe you're not supposed to compile
this um this entire thing, huh?
That might be too large of a segment to
compile.
I'm going to see if it I'm going to give
it a minute to see.
Uh this for reference is what happens
with um Torch and Jax is that like you
get something that looks like this and
then the compile times just become [ __ ]
So, I'm going to preemptively
and yeah, that's unacceptable [ __ ]
compile time.
I don't
have I
Huh?
What I do, man?
These [ __ ] errors are just not
helpful.
I do it without the jet.
How about that?
Sorry.
Args mismatch in What does that mean?
What the [ __ ] does that mean?
What do you even do when you get
[ __ ] like this?
It runs normally. It doesn't run with
the jet.
What the [ __ ]
in args
if printed.
Which args? You don't print the args?
They're not even realized because
everything's freaking lazy.
Like you can literally hear if I just
delete the tiny jet.
If I just do this, right? Look.
Remove this breakpoint. Okay. So look,
now it trains or it runs. Look at that.
It runs just fine
with no jet.
and it breaks
third iteration. This is apparently when
it starts to actually compile
or use the jitted graph.
Wait, it literally printed thing not
equal.
Did I miss something?
Envy
same device.
Oh, it doesn't have a device.
But the default is CUDA.
Args past stay unchanged. They should be
unchanged.
ST bars DT type device. Yeah, I don't
know what that means though.
This is first element. This is
overwriting. So this doesn't this is not
changing the arg
You'd have to have an in place op
somewhere I guess.
Blame YouTube and reream chat delay.
Annoying.
Crazy. Like every single jet ever is
just a pain in the ass. I swear.
I've yet to find a jet that doesn't make
me want to put my fist through the
monitor.
Oh, I see. This is a giant not equals
block.
Why is there uopsreshape first and then
shrink?
Shrink reshape
But this is
it's passing a slice of the tensor to
compile.
I mean, what does it want me to compile
this entire [ __ ] loop?
Like, then it's just going to take
forever, right?
Like I can technically I can do this,
right?
Didn't jit anything.
So this is going to need model logits
values.
And now it's going to take for [ __ ]
ever.
I guess it's not that terrible, but like
h
That's really [ __ ] that they don't
support that. Are you kidding me?
It's not dynamic. Literally, none of
this is dynamic. That's the crazy [ __ ]
I'm like, this is already optimized to
not even be remotely difficult to
handle.
Like this is me porting little chunks of
like a third generation at least
realistically much more than that
system.
I mean, I guess arguably there is
technically a way for me to make this
buffer contiguous. There's not a good
way for me to do it, though.
That is kind of interesting.
Massaging is needed.
Well, now congratulations. You've
learned why I [ __ ] hate jets.
make a jet. You know how to massage.
Okay. And even if you do it correctly,
then you get to wait for a stupid JIT to
compile.
This is going to make a gigantic graph,
right? You see this is going to make a
gigantic graph, right?
This is calling an entire network
inside this blob.
I wonder if this is a jet requirement or
a tiny god requirement actually.
Tiny red straight up not have contiguous
sets.
Oh well that's [ __ ]
Dude, you guys don't have proper
slicing.
then it'll Yeah.
And we can both see that that's
incredibly stupid, right?
I mean, honestly, Tiny is pretty damn
good so far. I like it's missing enough
stuff that there's no way in hell I
would just port this to T torch and say,
"Yeah, everybody's got to use I mean,
port from Torch and say everybody's got
to use Tiny for now." It's like it does
a bunch of things that PieTorch doesn't
that I'd like, but it's also missing a
bunch of [ __ ] that I would want as well.
Like the low-level control is really not
very good
because it generates it generates you
kernels, sure, but it generates you like
size specific kernels.
As far as I can tell, there's no way to
get it to generate you like a generic
kernel with a specific block size that
you can apply to whatever sized input.
What about the RMS norm thing?
What was the result of the RMS norm?
The one that like is really ridiculous
is the kernel is the fused kernel,
right?
I mean, we've got we've got two things
that are kind of ridiculous.
Okay. And what the [ __ ] is this? No
kernel available.
[ __ ] is this?
Oh, that's bizarre.
I hate the idea of introducing all these
complicated ass constructs just to avoid
writing anything but Python.
Like I'd rather just not write my
networks in Python than deal with this
[ __ ]
Okay. I mean, if you're using the
default settings,
Yeah, this is the only one that's like
ridiculous.
How the [ __ ] is this faster than my
kernel?
How fast is this thing without the dot
backwards?
Oh, interesting. So actually their
backward function is faster than mine
but um my forward is faster than theirs.
Huh?
How the hell is my backward function
slow?
I guess I didn't get rid of this one
conditional, but like
did I forget an X or something?
E
Do they have some better X function or
something?
kind of weird that my backward is that
much slower in the first place, isn't
it?
X F
two X here.
Huh?
I don't know.
That's weird either way.
I guess it could also be overhead from
um this whole thing is bound to torch
I mean, I can probably Let me do one
last like a couple things because this
is bothering Okay.
Yeah, that genuinely doesn't seem to
help, now does it?
Be surprised if that's the thing that's
slow, but
That actually does make it a little
faster, funny enough.
Make sure these checks
not uh
make sure real quick cuz I'm kind of
surprised how the hell that can be
faster.
Yeah, it's going to just it's going to
be this, I'm pretty sure. Right.
Yeah, that's what it's going to be.
has to be known compile time. This
probably is not going to do anything,
right?
Yeah, I'm actually I'm totally fine with
that. Like, yay. They of course they
generate a faster kernel.
They get to unroll loops.
Okay. So,
do we have any replies? Nope. No replies
in that discord. So, conclusion from
today.
Um,
I guess we can say tiny grads
uh tiny beam generates
better
generates us better code than torches
[ __ ] compile.
Um,
it generates like super specific kernels
to do so.
So you basically have to have the JIT in
there.
I'm trying to think what this changes
with how I'm doing stuff.
It's kind of funny like tiny would
almost be my ideal thing if it were just
written in freaking
I don't know C or something some
reasonable low-level language
cuz like how how would I do this with RL
even if I wanted to use tiny right Like
I guess you'd have to have
I don't even know if you can jet. You'd
have to like jet just the forward pass,
Like their kernel generation's actually
pretty good.
The other thing I like is that they're
so the way that they build up that
instruction queue, whatever it is, the
command buffer like that cutting out
overhead is really good. Though
actually, you know, I didn't see that
when I saw when I opened up the profile.
There's still a huge amount of time
between um between launches.
I guess it might just be too early as
well. Like
once we have the Cvec back end in a good
spot,
I mean, realistically, I could, but the
thing is, it's the reason that I could
foresee this thing winning on Perf is so
stupid.
It's just that PyTorch doesn't have um
doesn't have like kernel search in their
C++ API.
Yeah, I know. They like to golf their
[ __ ] more than they should. Liberty
It's still better than Torch, though.
Like the uh the code. I mean, go read
Torch's code. It's ass.
Go try to literally just go think of an
operation in Torch and go try to find
the source code. You won't be able to.
Like if you want to have a fun time, go
figure out how they do their map moles.
I mean, unfortunately, the conclusion
from this is everything is [ __ ] and
there are no good solutions, right?
Like that's literally the conclusion
from this
Yeah, there's nothing similar to that
sadly.
I'm going to check this and then I'm
going to bed,
I think. But like I guys, I really don't
have an answer to this. Um, it's kind of
an embarrassment that despite
the ludicrous number of billions of
dollars poured into ML as a whole, um,
our tensor library still suck.
Um,
is the closest,
I think. Yeah. What's wrong?
Yo. Um, Piper,
what's uh I don't see issue here. This
installs.
You have to paste an error. Yeah, that
guy long stream day.
I don't think that there's a good
solution to this.
Um, Tiny has some good stuff
for sure. They're also missing things
that you would want
and
Tell us what would be the ideal for
tensor libraries.
Well,
I mean, first of all, I'd want an
interface that's not [ __ ] Python.
I'd prefer C. Lightly C++ would be
honestly, [ __ ] that. Nah, just C. If it
were Zigg or something, that would be
fine. Just [ __ ] C++.
Um, there are a few other languages it
could be that would be fine, frankly.
Yeah, but then you're using TensorFlow,
dude.
Isn't that like project basically
abandoned as well because Google's doing
jacks now?
Um,
so you'd want a low-level interface
that removes all the Python launch
overhead without having to do any form
of JIT.
You'd want it to do something like what
Tiny does. Actually, basically do what
Tiny does, but do it in freaking C
so you don't have this slow ass jet.
I think the thing is you still do have
to trace, right? Even if you are in C, I
think you still have to trace anyways
because you need to uh you need to
buffer all the kernel executions.
What I really want is to not need a jet,
dude.
We could just make the damn shapes known
in advance.
didn't get error. Some stuff didn't
work.
Not do UV pip. Well, it's gotten a lot
of changes,
but like let me see
this work.
Yeah, this is puffer 3 training breakout
here. 3.6.
Yeah, 3.5 mill steps a second.
you know the shapes you can probably
compile.
Yeah. The thing is you can guarantee
that the shapes will be static for a
single run but you don't want to have to
recompile per shape.
Yeah. So that guy here's the thing about
torch compile with max autotune. It's
[ __ ] dog [ __ ]
It produces slower code every [ __ ]
time when you have small networks.
It should be above 458
possibly. This is a torch version diff.
So that does run.
I would imagine torch version diff on
this.
Yeah, cuz that doesn't work as well as
it was when I shipped this.
I hate Python so much.
Well, the like there's no point in even
looking at torch compile with max
autotune because it produces slower code
than eager mode.
Slower code than eager mode.
Dude,
I think Tiny Grad's Jit is the best of
them so far.
Reduce overhead. No, it's not. I've
profiled it repeatedly. It still
produces slower code.
I hate the idea of having to do puffer
in C++ and cudigraphs.
Okay, cool that guy. I'm not doing any
of those. It's still ass.
I get results out of torch compile.
Sometimes on larger networks, it
constantly screws up on small nets.
Well, this is the thing. I'm not sure,
right? Because like I want So, not being
in Python eliminates Python overhead,
but like Tiny actually has eliminated a
lot of the uh the Python overhead,
at least from the calls into their nets.
I'm still trying to think.
I hate that it has to be a Jit to do
that,
but having to be like low-level and
still traced is also like that's even
worse.
I guess the benefit would be at least
that the JIT would be faster.
The jet would defin definitely be
faster.
Cudigraph launch overhead. Hudigraph
launch overhead is a decent chunk of it.
That guy,
we have a [ __ ] ton of CPU time actually.
Can I run this?
Tiny was also able to produce um like a
30% faster kernel than my handwritten
kernel.
though like admittedly they're basically
doing it by generating a they're doing
it by generating like a singlepurpose
kernel with everything unrolled etc etc
and we're testing this against my
generic kernel that works for
everything. So my generic kernel is like
uh twice as fast or whatever as
PyTorch's kernel
and then theirs is like plus 30% on
mine.
we've got a big chunk of CUDA launch
kernel,
dynamic kernels.
Well, I'd like tunable kernels at the
least, right? Like maybe you tune the
block sizes, but I'd like to not have to
have literally codegened human
unreadable kernels.
I don't like the idea of I don't like
the idea of taking the you know
unreadable machine code up another
level, right? I don't like the idea of
oh kernel code shouldn't be readable.
That's [ __ ]
You're basically taking like the machine
code and bringing it up a level of
abstraction and saying, "Oh, people
should never have to read that." Which I
hate that.
So yeah, that guy, you can see this
right here.
You can ignore some of these other
things like a lot of this this memcopy
overhead is some of this is going to go
down. There's going to be synchronize
overhead's going to go down. But this
launch overhead, man,
there's nothing I can do about this, I
think, other than fuse more kernels or
do um graphs.
Uh, if this affects LLMs, you are hard
trolling.
I have so much less margin for error
when the networks are this small.
Like my forward passes are 200
microsconds.
Launch time is proportional to the
kernel size
that
Well, not for matt moles.
Well, for matt moles though, it's you
have more arithmetic intensity, so it's
less.
I guess your element wise ops still do,
but then the thing is your element wise
op should be less of your compute
because your mat moles are so much
bigger and they scale quadratic.
Like, so yeah, I still have way less of
a margin of error.
More fuses won't help.
Launch time. Wait, more fuses won't
help. More fuses absolutely do help.
What are you talking about, dude?
What do you mean proportional to the
kernel size? The input size.
I've timed it and the fusing kernels
absolutely does help
Well, I will write something up on Tiny
early next week. Um, we got the Ilia
podcast to look at. We've got the VEC
back end to get stable. Vec is going to
get us a couple mill steps per second. I
think we should get to 5 mil just with
good Vec. Um,
and then we need to find another 2x
overhead in here.
Trying out 4.0. I don't know why his
comments don't show up. Probably because
he tried to post a trace and YouTube
filtered it as spam. It's nothing I've
done. It's YouTube defaults. I can't
change them.
Please help him in the Discord if you
can. It's 10 though. I got to get sleep.
Um I'm going to be lifting weights
pretty much all day tomorrow. That's my
uh rest plus exercise day. And I will be
back streaming on Monday.
So, and I have I have to think through
this as well. So,
for everyone who's tuned in, thank you
very much.
All my stuff's free and open source at
puffer.ai.
If you're interested, I try to make RL
fast and less painful.
Um, I also do core research and the
like. You want to help me for free? Feed
this puffer a star. He likes stars. It
actually helps me a ton. stars go up
and can join Discord to get involved
with dev. You can follow me on X for
more RL content including my educational
stuff. Thank you and have a nice
weekend.